---
layout: full-width-post
title: "THE DAY AFTER"
category: culture
author: "Beau Sia"
featured-image: '/static/images/featured/2018-11-07-Beau-Sia.png'
featured-alt-text: "Asian American man in tan trench coat with eyes closed holds a microphone speaking passionately"
tweet: "A poem written by .%40BeauSia celebrating our organizing, mobilizing, and political power on Election Day and long after %23OurAAPIVote"
facebook: "A poem for for #OurAAPIVote written by Beau Sia"
blurb: "Beau Sia writes a poem showing how our communities are moving forward after Election Day"
permalink: /2018/11/beau-sia.html
---

be proud
for seizing the moment.

a moment born
from those
who passed on
before our birth.

a moment built
by communities
committed
to continue
striving together.

a moment filled
with individuals
willing
to challenge themselves
to do more.

every step taken
has mattered.

every choice
beyond your comfort
has had impact.

every action
towards
the world you want to live in
has helped us
arrive at this moment.

when our voices
no longer relegated
to the margins.

when our people
have begun to realize
the collective power
we share.

when our vision
for who we are
in this nation
on the verge
of full bloom.

still, we have yet
to rise beyond
inequality,
injustice,
inhumanity
of the past
still present.

still, we have yet
to inspire everyone
to contribute
to the work
still necessary.

still, we have yet
to raise
the level
of conviction
to be relentless
and never still.

for as we celebrate
what we've achieved,
let us also be focused
on why we must
keep going.

we are called
to protect all
who are not safe.

we are called
to uplift all
who take action
on our behalf.

we are called
to engage all
who will doubt
on this work.

we are called
to inspire all
who will dream
on the future.

we are called
to strengthen all
who will carry us
on every day.

all of this
we are called to do.

until
our bodies
are no longer
a place
for harm.

until
our choices are free
to prosper.

until
our world
receives
reflects
and
represents
us all.>
